# AMPLIFY Flow Central Docker

AMPLIFY Flow Central Docker

## Content

- Docker-Compose: Orchestration infrastructure.

## Before you begin

This document assumes a basic understanding of core Docker concepts such as containers, container images, and basic Docker commands.
If needed, see [Get started with Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) for a primer on container basics.

## Prerequisites

- Git
- Docker version 17.09 or higher
- Docker-Compose version 1.17.0 or higher
- Create the directories where you wish to bind your volumes
- License and certificates
- Optional: MongoDB instance

*Note* You may use an existing MongoDB instance or our bundled up MongoDB service which will be deployed by default when running with our docker-compose.

#### Installing the necessary prerequisites  (Git, Docker Engine and Docker Compose)

Add local registry to docker installation daemon.conf file:

For unix /etc/docker/daemon.json

{
"insecure-registries": ["fc-docker.lab.buch.axway.int"]
}

!!! The docker service needs to be restarted in order to apply the changes.


Login to local docker registry

*Note* docker login fc-docker.lab.buch.axway.int -u LdapUser -p LdapPassword




##### Installing Git

*Note* Debian/Ubuntu
```console
sudo apt install -y git
```

*Note* Centos/RHEL
```console
sudo yum install -y git
```

 ***(More details on Git installation can be found at the following url: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git )***

##### Installing the Docker Engine and Docker Compose

*Note* Details on installing Docker Engine for Linux based systems can be found here: https://docs.docker.com/cs-engine/1.12/.

*Note* Details on installing Docker Compose can be found here : https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/.

 ***(More details on Docker and Docker Compose can be found here: https://docs.docker.com/ )***

##### In order to obtain the necessary license files please contact your local Axway vendor

## Clone the Flow Central repository from GitHub

```console
git clone https://github.com/Axway/docker-flowcentral.git
cd docker-flowcentral
```

#### Create volumes for persistence data

 - mkdir -p ./mounts/logs         # All the application logs will be stored in here.
 - mkdir -p ./mounts/configs      # This folder will contain the Flow Central license under the name **license.xml** and all the certificates..
 - mkdir -p ./mounts/resources    # This folder will contain custom resources.
 - mkdir -p ./mounts/plugins      # This folder will contain plugins.    

*Note* In order to persist data from the MongoDB container we create volumes where the Mongo data and Mongo configuration files will be stored. **TAKE HEED**, you may use any MongoDB image you desire as Axway does not offer support and/or maintenance for the MongoDB image bundled alongside Flow Central.

 - mkdir -p ./mounts/mongo_data      # Mongo Database files.
 - mkdir -p ./mounts/mongo_config      # Mongo Database configuration folder.
 - mkdir -p ./mounts/mongo_certificates #Mongo Certificates 

*Note* In order for the Flow Central and MongoDB services to be able to operate you have to give the appropriate permissions to folder where the volumes will be mounted.

Example : chmod -R 777 ./mounts

*Note*  The Flow Central `docker-compose.yml` file defines a volume as a mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by the MongoDB service required by Flow Central.
The MongoDB data is placed in this volume so it can be reused when creating and starting a new Flow Central container.

## Customizing the Flow Central service

The docker-compose file describes the Flow Central service along with the MongoDB service it requires. Furthermore it allows the management and configuration of the aforementioned services parameters.

Before you start, you must specify the Flow Central image you want to use. For that you must edit the **image** entry under the **flowcentral** service and specify the image name using the following naming convention "< repository > : < tag >".

Example:
 ```console
  image: cgqajenkins.lab.buch.axway.int:8083/flowcentral-openjdk:latest
```
Make sure that the folders created at the previous step correspond with those specified in the docker-compose file.

Finally please verify that the entry `hostname` under the service `flowcentral` has the same value as the parameters `FC_GENERAL_FQDN` and `FC_GENERAL_HOSTNAME` listed under the `environment` entry and that they correspond to the actual hostname of the machine running the Flow Central services.

## Conecting to Api Catalog

In order to connect to Api Catalog please register the keys generated with the script found in **./scripts** folder or custom ones into Api Catalog and get the Client ID which you must enter into docker-compose under the  `FC_APIC_CLIENTID` environment variable.


#### Using a custom MongoDB

In order to use a custom MongoDB service you must first comment/remove the entries under the `fcmongo` service located in the docker-compose file.

Furthermore you must edit the `flowcentral` service located in the same file. You must fill out the MongoDB environment variables with the appropriate values specific to your custom solution. Finally you must comment/remove the entry `depends_on` from the `flowcentral`.

#### Docker-compose parameters

The following tables illustrate a list of available parameters from the docker-compose file. With these parameters you can fine tune Flow Central's configuration in order for it to better fit your use case.

### Docker-compose parameters (these parameters come with a default value, but they can be customized for your use case)

#### Flow Central

 **Parameter**                   |  **Values**  |  **Description**
 ------------------------------- | :----------: | ---------------
ACCEPT_EULA                      |  \<string>   |  Parameter which indicates your acceptance of the End User License Agreement (i.e. EULA).
FM_GENERAL_FQDN                  |  \<string>   |  Host address of the Flow Central instance.
FM_GENERAL_UI_PORT               |  \<string>   |  FlowCentral UI Port.
FM_GENERAL_HTTP_PORT             |  \<string>   |  FlowCentral http Port.
FM_GENERAL_ENCRYPTION_KEY        |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's encryption key.
FM_GENERAL_LOGGING_LEVEL         |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's Logging Level.
FM_GENERAL_LICENSE               |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's license name.
FM_GENERAL_CUSTOM_LOCATION_PATH  |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's logs location in docker container.
FM_EXTERNAL_FQDN                 |  \<string>   |  External FQDN.           
FM_EXTERNAL_UI_PORT              |  \<string>   |  External Port.
FM_LOGS_CONSOLE                  |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's redirection of logs to console.
FM_HTTPS_USE_CUSTOM_CERT         |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's custom https certificate.
FM_HTTPS_KEYSTORE                |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's certificate file location inside docker container.
FM_HTTPS_CERT_ALIAS              |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's UI certificate alias.
FM_HTTPS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD       |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's UI certificate password.
FM_HTTPS_DISABLED                |  \<string>   |  Default false. Set on true if the ssl requests are handled by a gateway (ssl termination) 
FM_CFT_SHARED_SECRET             |  \<string>   |  Flow Central's shared secret. Backward compatibility with CG.
FM_APIC_USE_CATALOG              |  \<string>   |  Enable or disable connection to ApiCatalog.
FM_APIC_HOST                     |  \<string>   |  ApiCatalog Host.
FM_APIC_CLIENTID                 |  \<string>   |  ApiCatalog Client ID.
FM_APIC_PUBLICKEY                |  \<string>   |  ApiCatalog Public Key.
FM_APIC_PRIVATEKEY               |  \<string>   |  ApiCatalog Private Key.
FM_DATABASE_HOST                 |  \<string>   |  MongoDB host name.
FM_DATABASE_PORT                 |  \<number>   |  MongoDB port.
FM_DATABASE_USER_NAME            |  \<string>   |  MongoDB user name.
FM_DATABASE_USER_PASSWORD        |  \<string>   |  MongoDB password.
FM_DATABASE_USE_SSL              |  \<string>   |  MongoDB use ssl.
FM_DATABASE_CERTIFICATES         |  \<string>   |  MongoDB certificate.
FM_BUSINESS_CA_CERTIF_ALIAS      |  \<string>   |  Alias custom business certificate.
FM_BUSINESS_CA_FILE              |  \<string>   |  File name of the custom business certificate.
FM_BUSINESS_CA_PASSWORD          |  \<string>   |  Password of the custom business certificate.
FM_GOVERNANCE_CA_CERTIF_ALIAS    |  \<string>   |  Alias of the custom governance certificate.
FM_GOVERNANCE_CA_FILE            |  \<string>   |  File name of the custom governance certificate.
FM_GOVERNANCE_CA_PASSWORD        |  \<string>   |  Password of the custom governance certificate.
FM_JVM_XMX                       |  \<string>   |  JVM_XMX Custom Properties.
FM_JVM_XMS                       |  \<string>   |  JVM_XMS Custom Properties.
FM_JVM_XMN                       |  \<string>   |  JVM_XMN Custom Properties. 
FM_JVM_DEBUG_ENABLED             |  \<string>   |  JVM Disable/Enable Debug.
FM_JVM_DEBUG_PORT                |  \<string>   |  JVM Debug Port.
FM_JVM_DEBUG_SUSPEND             |  \<string>   |  JVM Debug suspend.


## Flow Central service operations

#### 1. Create and start the Flow Central service

From the folder where the `docker-compose.yml` file is located, run the command:

```console
docker-compose up
```

The `up` command pulls the Flow Central image from DockerHub, recreates, starts, and attaches to a container for services.
Unless they are already running, this command also starts any linked services.

You can use the `-d` option to run containers in the background.

```console
docker-compose up -d
```

Run the docker `ps` command to see the running containers.

```console
docker ps
```

#### 2. Stop and remove the Flow Central service

From the folder where the `docker-compose.yml` file is located, you can stop the containers using the command:

```console
docker-compose down
```

The `down` command stops containers, and removes containers, networks, anonymous volumes, and images created by `up`.
You can use the `-v` option to remove named volumes declared in the `volumes` section of the Compose file, and anonymous volumes attached to containers.

***BE CAREFULL*** When using the Flow Central Docker image in production, the following command `docker-compose down -v` will remove any persistent data associated with your Flow Central containers.
***It will essentially result in a clean slate for your Flow Central services.***

#### 3. Start the Flow Central service

From the folder where the `docker-compose.yml` file is located, you can start the Flow Central service using `start` if it was stopped using `stop`.

```console
docker-compose start
```

#### 4. Stop Flow Central service

From the folder where the `docker-compose.yml` file is located, you can stop the containers using the command:

```console
docker-compose stop
```

## Helper scripts

This sections details the usage of the helper scripts included alongside the Flow Central docker-compose. There are 2 helper scripts, namely: **gen-amplify-certs.sh** and **gen-certs.sh**.

Their usage will be detailed in the following sections.

*Note* In order for these scripts to function you will **require** **read, write and execute permissions** in the folder in which they are located as well as the following **packages**: **openssl**.

#### Using "gen-amplify-certs.sh"

This script generates the public and private keys required by the Flow Central service in order to connect to the amplify products stack. The files will be located in the same directory as the script being used to generate them. By default they need to be placed in the `./configs` directory.

*Note* The following example details the use of the aforementioned script.

Example:
```console
./scripts/gen-amplify-certs.sh
```

#### Using "gen-certs.sh"

This script takes care of generating the `.p12` default certificates. It also has the embedded functionality to generate the `.jks` certificates as well although it is not enabled by default. Inside it are included all the necessary parameters in order to generate the basic certificates but you are free to edit them as per your custom use scenario.

Besides generating the certificates it will also copy them into the default volume mounts specified in the docker-compose.

Example:
```console
./scripts/gen-certs.sh
```

## Security notices

`*Note*` The image axway/mongodb is using the official mongo:3.6 image on top of it we added some scripts specific to the application **we are not managing the mongo:3.6 image**.

